move rel="alternate stylesheet" from CSS guide to HTML attribute (#38146)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/html/attributes/rel/alternate_stylesheet/index.md

---
title: Alternate stylesheet
slug: Web/HTML/Attributes/rel/alternate_stylesheet
page-type: html-attribute-value
browser-compat: html.elements.link.rel.alternate_stylesheet
---

{{HTMLSidebar}}

> The **`alternate stylesheet`** keyword pair for the [`rel`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/link#rel) attribute of the {{HTMLElement("link")}} element indicates that the target resource an _alternative style sheet_. Specifying **alternative style sheets** in a web page provides a way for users to see multiple versions of a page, based on their needs or preferences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`alternate stylesheet`** keyword pair, when used as a value for the [`rel`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/link#rel) attribute of the {{HTMLElement("link")}} element, indicates that the target resource is an _alternative style sheet_. Specifying **alternative style sheets** in a web page allows users to see multiple versions of a page based on their needs or preferences.
```

> [!NOTE]
> This feature is not well supported in browsers without an extension. To offer alternative presentations that work with a user's existing preferences, see the CSS [media features](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media#media_features) {{cssxref("@media/prefers-color-scheme","prefers-color-scheme")}} and {{cssxref("@media/prefers-contrast","prefers-contrast")}}.

> Firefox lets the user select the {{glossary("stylesheet")}} using the _View > Page Style_ submenu, which displays the values of the [`title`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/title) attributes. Other browsers require an extension to enable this functionality. The web page can also provide its own user interface to let the user switch styles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Firefox lets users select alternate {{glossary("stylesheet", "stylesheets")}} using the _View > Page Style_ submenu, which displays the values of the [`title`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/title) attributes. Other browsers require an extension to enable this functionality. The web page can also provide its own user interface to let users switch styles.
```

> ## An example: specifying the alternative stylesheets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Examples

### Specifying alternate stylesheets
```

> In this example, the styles "Default Style", "Fancy", and "Basic" will be listed in the _Page Style_ submenu, with "Default Style" pre-selected. When the user selects a different style, the page will immediately be re-rendered using that style sheet.

Reviewer: This is Firefox-specific. Make that clear?

Reviewer: Follow-up — looking at the BCD table, this is now only supported in Firefox, although it is still a standard. This might affect how you decide to update this wording, if at all.

Author: this one is, so added.

> In this example, the styles "Default Style", "Fancy", and "Basic" will be listed in the _Page Style_ submenu, with "Default Style" pre-selected. When the user selects a different style, the page will immediately be re-rendered using that style sheet.

Author: ```suggestion
In this example, the styles "Default Style", "Fancy", and "Basic" will be listed in the Firefox _Page Style_ submenu with "Default Style" pre-selected. When the user selects a different style, the page will immediately be re-rendered using that style sheet.
```

- **Preferred** (has `rel="stylesheet"`, with `title="…"` specified): applied by default, but {{domxref("StyleSheet.disabled", "disabled", "", 1)}} if an alternate stylesheet is selected. **There can only be one preferred stylesheet**, so providing stylesheets with different title attributes will cause some of them to be ignored.
- **Alternate** (`rel="alternate stylesheet"`, with `title="…"` specified): disabled by default, can be selected.

> When style sheets are referenced with a `title` attribute on the {{HTMLElement("link", "&lt;link rel=\"stylesheet\"&gt;")}} or {{HTMLElement("style")}} element, the title becomes one of the choices offered to the user. Style sheets linked with the same [`title`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/title) are part of the same choice. Style sheets linked without a `title` attribute are always applied.

Reviewer: Again, Firefox-specific, in terms of how this is offered to the user?

Author: extensions exists, so edited to reflect that.

> When style sheets are referenced with a `title` attribute on the {{HTMLElement("link", "&lt;link rel=\"stylesheet\"&gt;")}} or {{HTMLElement("style")}} element, the title becomes one of the choices offered to the user. Style sheets linked with the same [`title`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/title) are part of the same choice. Style sheets linked without a `title` attribute are always applied.

Author: ```suggestion
In cases where a stylesheet menu exists, when style sheets are referenced with a `title` attribute on the {{HTMLElement("link", "&lt;link rel=\"stylesheet\"&gt;")}} or {{HTMLElement("style")}} element, the title becomes one of the choices offered to the user. Style sheets linked with the same [`title`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/title) are part of the same choice. Style sheets linked without a `title` attribute are always applied.
```
